added normal & match-parent values and updated intro (#44017)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/position-anchor/index.md

sidebar: cssref
---

> The **`position-anchor`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property specifies the default **anchor element** (i.e., an element that has an **anchor name** set on it via the {{cssxref("anchor-name")}} property), which is used by {{cssxref("position-area")}}, {{cssxref("position-try")}}, and (by default) all anchor functions ({{cssxref("anchor()")}} and {{cssxref("anchor-size()")}}) applied to this element.

Reviewer: The problem predates your chagens, but I don't understand this as written. I think it means this - can you confirm? Note that I used `<anchor-name>`  rather than the property, because those methods specify it this way. When you link though, the value is an [anchor-name](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/anchor-name) property value.

```suggestion
The **`position-anchor`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property specifies the default **anchor element** for a positioned element.
This default is used by {{cssxref("position-area")}} and {{cssxref("position-try")}}, and by anchor functions ({{cssxref("anchor()")}} and {{cssxref("anchor-size()")}}) when no `<anchor-name>` argument is provided to those functions.
```

### Values

- `normal`

>   - : If {{cssXRef("position-area")}} is `none`, behaves as `none`. Otherwise, behaves as `auto`.

Reviewer: consistency
```suggestion
  - : If {{cssxref("position-area")}} is `none`, behaves as `none`. Otherwise, behaves as `auto`.
```

>   - : If {{cssxref("position-area")}} is `none`, behaves as `none`. Otherwise, behaves as `auto`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : If {{cssxref("position-area")}} is `none`, it behaves as `none`. Otherwise it behaves as `auto`.
```

- `auto`
  - : Associates a positioned element with its implicit anchor element, if it has one — for example as set by the non-standard HTML [`anchor`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Global_attributes/anchor) attribute.

- `none`
  - : The positioned element is not associated with an anchor element.

- {{cssxref("dashed-ident")}}
  - : The name of the anchor element to associate the positioned element with, as listed in the anchor element's {{cssxref("anchor-name")}} property. This is known as the **default anchor specifier**.

- `match-parent`

>   - : Uses the same default anchor element as the parent or originating element, if this is a [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Pseudo-element) ​if any, and if that would be an acceptable anchor element. Otherwise it has no default anchor element.

Reviewer: I don't understand this. Does it mean:

```suggestion
  - : Uses the same default anchor element as the parent element, or the originating element if this is a [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Pseudo-element), provided that would be an acceptable anchor element. Otherwise, it has no default anchor element.
```

Note, I don't know what would make a pseudo element acceptable

Author: It would be a pseudo element that is part of the tree, such as `::marker`, `::before` but not `::selection`
https://www.w3.org/TR/css-pseudo-4/#treelike

Author: I have expanded upon this

>   - : Uses the same default anchor element as the parent ​or originating element, if this is a [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Pseudo-element) ​if any, and if that would be an acceptable anchor element. Otherwise it has no default anchor element.

Reviewer: Claude found invisible characters
```suggestion
  - : Uses the same default anchor element as the parent or originating element, if this is a [pseudo-element](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Pseudo-element) ​if any, and if that would be an acceptable anchor element. Otherwise it has no default anchor element.
```
